$Id: README,v 1.1.1.1 2002/09/04 21:37:50 mfw Exp $

                         Photo Album Creater
                        ---------------------    

Version : @VERSION@
Distribution created : @TIME@

Copyright (C) 2002 Matthew West album@matthewwest.co.uk www.matthewwest.co.uk/

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
    Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA

    EXCEPTION: Xalan.jar and XercesImpl.jar are copyright The Apache
    Project, and are released under the terms of the Apache Licence.
    See www.apache.org/.

Welcome!

 Hello, thank you for downloading the Photo Album Creater.  To run it
you will also need a working version of Java, version 1.3 or better.
In fact you will probably need Sun's version, as I have used their
JPEG library which usually isn't available on other Javas.

Viewing The Sample

 Point your web browser at sample/output/index.html to see an example
of what this program produces.  Go to www.matthewwest.co.uk/photos/
for a more complicated example.  The files used to produce the sample
are sample.xml, sample.xsl and the contents of the source_images/
directory.  These are all in the samples directory.  You can recreate
the samples with the command:

        java -jar bin/Album.jar -f sample/sample.xml -x sample/sample.xsl -o sample/output

Running The Program

 The previous comand is as complicated as it gets.

        -f defines the input file of which more later
        -x defines the XSL file which processes the XML from the program to create HTML
        -o defines the directory in which to put the output

The Input File

 This file defines how the photos are organised, and gives them
captions etc.  See the sample for an example of what one looks like.
Sections can contain pages, images or more sections.  Pages can contain
images.  Sections can start with an index page if index="yes".

The XSL File

 The Album program creates an XML file for each page it produces.  If
you do not specify an XSL file then this is what it saves.  The XSL
file converts the XML file into HTML.  The content of the page is
therefore seperate from the presentation.  You can change the look of
the page without needing to know any Java.  XSLT is a complicated
language in it's own right, more info can be found at www.w3.org/.

Compiling The Program

 To recompile the program you will need Ant, which is available from
java.apache.org/.  Change to this directory and type 'ant bin'.  That
will recompile the program and put a new .jar file into the bin/
directory.

Acknowledgement

 This program uses Xalan, Xerces and Ant , all developed by the Apache
Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org).  I have included their
.jar files in lib/ and bin/.  I am grateful to the authors of these
programs for donating their time and expertise to both the programs
and their documentation.


